LOG DRAFT

<some sort of intro/lead-in sentence> I dug into a bunch of the weather data from the various antenna stations. The goal was to answer questions from that last post about how reliable and consistent are the weather station measurements across the array and how much does the difference in weather across the array actually matter when it comes to refractivity and phase correction.

-How stable are the weather stations?

To start I pulled the temperature, pressure, and relative humidity data for various months in different configurations - starting with subcompact and eventually getting up to VEX. Using only the night time data (04-16 UT) I determined an array median for each parameter and then used that to calculate the offset of each of the antennas' values. I also flagged out antennas that were in the hangar or whose weather stations were not working right. Once I had the offsets for each antenna, I took the median value for each antenna on each day, shown in the plots below. I repeated this with several months in all 4 configurations and for each of the weather parameters.

[SUB_stability] [EXT_stability]

These plots show the temperature offsets and as expected there is almost no difference between antennas when in subcompact, but much more variation in extended when the baselines are longer. This trend held true for temperature and humidity across the various configurations - with humidity tending to be more noisy and also affected by the 100% saturation point with bad weather. The offsets in subcompact are pretty small, about a tenth of a degree, and fairly consistent. Even in extended the offsets don't get to be morethat 1.5-2 degreesC. Humidity is noisier but the offsets are still about a 3-5% difference in extended. The pressure offsets are essentially constant, varying only by .1 millibars over a month, maybe. The difference between the antennas is also pretty small, about .1-.2 mbar across antennas at the same altitude and 1-3 mbars for antennas on pads farther out. 

In general it looks like the weather measurements are fairly stable and consistent with each other in the long term, even with some variation at longer baselines.

-How different is the weather across the array

Once I could determine that the weather measurements were pretty stable over time, I could look at how different the actual weather was across the array. I directly compared the minute-to-minute measurements for different baselines in each configuraton for pressure, temperature, and relative humidity. Shown below are the comparisons of temperature for the longest baselines in each configuration (the same months as above).

[SUB_2d] [EXT_2d]

I calculated a line of best fit (solid yellow) and 

[distances_h?] [distances_t?]

-Bringing it back to N, is the difference big enough to  matter?

[final path_length plot?]